---
title: "FedWM: Federated Crowdsourcing Workforce Management Service for Productive Laziness"
collection: publications
date: 2023-07-02
venue: 'Proc. of IEEE International Conference on Web Services (ICWS), CCF-B'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10248239'
---
Zhuan Shi, Zhenyu Yao, **Liping Yi**, Han Yu, Lan Zhang, Xiang-Yang Li

**Abstract:** Federated crowdsourcing, as a dynamic privacy-preserving distributed machine learning approach, has attracted significant research attention recently. Compared to federated learning (FL), clients can dynamically collect and label fresh data as required, and train model on the updated data. Existing research has mainly focused on incentivizing clients to spend more effort on data collection and labelling in order to improve FL model performance. However, as data collection and labeling require human effort, they need to balance work and rest. This need has been overlooked by existing federated crowdsourcing research. In this paper, we propose the Federated Workforce Management (FedWM) approach to bridge this important gap. It first measures the contribution of each client to the FL model, and estimates the urgency collecting new labelled data based on the rate of change of the contribution. Then, FedWM computes the working time taking into account of the client's maximum productivity and self-reported mood. Finally, it takes both the urgency level of obtaining new data and clients' productivity into consideration to provide scheduling services that advise the clients on work-rest balance in a given time slot based on Lyapunov optimization. Through theoretical analysis, we provide the performance bounds of FedWM. Through extensive experiments based on real-world datasets, we demonstrate that FedWM achieves significantly more advantageous trade-offs between client rest and FL model performance compared to existing approaches. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first federated crowdsourcing framework designed to achieve productive laziness.
